capital = 300
primary_culture = english
culture = british
culture = irish
culture = pictish
culture = scottish
culture = welsh
culture = zzz_religion_protestant
religion = protestant
government = hms_government
plurality = 0
nationalvalue = nv_productivity
literacy = 0.450857

civilized = yes

# Social Reforms
wage_reform = no_minimum_wage
work_hours = no_work_hour_limit
safety_regulations = no_safety
health_care = no_health_care
unemployment_subsidies = no_subsidies
pensions = no_pensions
school_reforms = no_schools

# political reforms
slavery = no_slavery
upper_house_composition = appointed
vote_franschise = wealth_voting
public_meetings = yes_meeting
press_rights = censored_press
trade_unions = non_socialist
voting_system = first_past_the_post
political_parties = non_secret_ballots

ruling_party = ENG_conservative
upper_house = 
{
	fascist = 0
	liberal = 10
	conservative = 85
	reactionary = 5
	anarcho_liberal = 0
	socialist = 0
	communist = 0
}

# Starting Consciousness
consciousness = 1.70003
nonstate_consciousness= 0.94666

# Technologies
ad_hoc_money_bill_printing = 1
bronze_muzzle_loaded_artillery = 1
classicism_n_early_romanticism = 1
clipper_design = 1
early_classical_theory_and_critique = 1
flintlock_rifles = 1
freedom_of_trade = 1
guild_based_production = 1
late_classical_theory = 1
late_enlightenment_philosophy = 1
market_structure = 1
mechanical_production = 1
naval_design_bureaus = 1
no_standard = 1
piston_steam_engine = 1
post_napoleonic_thought = 1
post_nelsonian_thought = 1
private_banks = 1
stock_exchange = 1
the_command_principle = 1
prestige=50
oob = "ENG_OOB.txt"
set_country_flag = religi
decision = literacy_ENG
set_country_flag = vic2_country_ENG
set_country_flag = eu4_country_GBR
